anachronism is a general term for objects out of their time period:
in context of a game, the object presence violates the time-period setting,
such as e.g. cars in Roman Empire settings.
The idea of 'a car' in a Roman Empire is not impossible by itself:
it just won't be a 'stylized 20th century factory car', but some vehicle 
produced with Roman Empire constraints and style of design - like to resemble
 'horseless carriage'-type early cars with huge steam engines and unique design
 for each car emphasizing the skill of the mechanic.
Games which specialize with time travel and alternate history may justify 
anachronisms in-lore, but they will still look out of place and foreign to the setting.

Subtypes;
A.Idea transplantation: idea appearing before its foundations are established.
Usually an idea from modern setting is transplanted to an older settings,
without establishing the foundation on which the idea is based, creating an anachronism.

B.Style migration; the period doesn't match the expected historical variety of the style:
A settings from which the style originates is either too remote in time or
lacks substance for which it applied(e.g. musical style that requires complex orchestral
arrangement in a setting without orchestras)

C.Retro-futurism: concepts imagined for future settings are applied
to known settings, outside of their niche genre(e.g. steampunk).
Some elements of past styles/designs are treated as current/contemporary despite
 looking outdated, usually justified as retro/revival: this clashes with player
 expectation of consistency when modern and classic concepts coexist at same place:
 e.g. cars and horse carriages equally common in technologically advanced settings.

D.Pseudo-future projection:eseentially this is next generation of retro-futurism for 
settings which masquerade as 'future society'
but project an unrealistic carbon-copy of contemporary settings:
unlike (obvious) retro-futurism,
such settings clash much less with our understanding of 
temporary nature of culture and technology:
it would be absurd to project something based on specific trend/fad without considering
its future transformation. Usually the 'pseudo-future anachronism' takes
some contemporary trend and projects a future settings where its pre-dominant
(like e.g. a dirigible-base transport system in retro-futurism, but using
some idea/concept/product that is contemporary and familiar) and unchanging
standard/trope(all transport is dominated by dirigibles, or computing based on iPads)
without bothering to imagine any evolution of the subject(what if iPads are not the pinnacle
of technology/culture/philosophy?):
in the future this would be classified as retro-futurism, but for now its contemporary fantasy
with 'anachronistic projection' into the future that may or may not happen.

E.Post-apocalyptic retreat: this settings assumes that contemporary 
world will magically transform into past historical setting by removing specific
technology, like e.g. feudal Europe being reborn without electricity.
A historian would see this as absurd regression that doesn't have basis
in its justification, as complexities of social hierarchies and knowledge
are an inherent advantage over ancient regimes, but a player might only
expirience dissonance over the 'apparent past' inserted within future.


