Fixture is defined as persistent fixed element that is embeded into UI without a dynamic
functionality. e.g. a link button in the UI that serves the same functionality at any point.
The problems with fixtures:
1.The waste mental and visual space.
2.They rarely provide any useful functionality, usually serving as ads/hints/infodumps.
3.The function of a fixture is trivially available in other UI parts/ dynamic UI elements,
thus a fixture duplicates functionality.

Usual reason fixtures are created;
1.The designer believes a fixture is underappreciated 'feature' without prominence.
2.Fixture serves as beacon for some statistic/metric involving its content.
3.The fixture is advertisement for something.
4.The fixture is serving as context-less "help/info" button.
5.Functionality of some generic function is moved out of menus to improve reachability.
Only rare case of #5 can be justified, with rest exhibiting the 'fixture anti-pattern' 
that forces a persistent UI element without a valid reason:
1.Features that deserve a persistent fixed element in UI are symptom 
of rigid UI design that crams all functionality into main interface:
the problem is mixing different functionality into same UI space.
2.statistic/metric from a persistent element doesn't show actual user interest since the
interaction with a fixture is forced and shoved into mainline experience.
3.Adverisements without context only harms the user perception, due it stealing visual space
in the game. User don't like to be reminded of advertised content all the time.
4.context-less help/info buttons are better served as context tooltip for each element,
with a 'Help/Info/[?]' interface link beside them, since users don't connect the
"persistent element(fixture)" with dynamic elements(the connection of context-less elements
with current context exists only in the mind of the designer).
5.A functionality that 'deserves a fixture' is better served as hotkey command in the game,
since if its important enough for a persistent element, its use should be either automated 
or hotkeyed for rapid use. Forcing the user to repeatedly click the fixture is just asinine
and leads to RSI and mental fatigue(e.g. Cookie Clicker manual clicks).
