Board12x12:12 pawns+12 pieces per side:
    PPPPPPPP PPPP`
    RNBDJQKJDBNR
    general Abilities:
    empower - piece which is protected by one piece gains its native movement and capture ability(Kings/pawns cannot be empowered or give empowerment). e.g. a knight protected by a rook can move and capture like a rook.

    Guards - if a unit is protected by two or more (non-pawn) pieces it is not empowered but cannot be captured(the guarded unit can capture normally). Kings cannot be guarded.

    capture immunity - a non-pawn piece cannot capture a piece of its own kind(e.g. knight vs knight).

    Double move - (applies to native movement only, empowered pieces can only use single move of empowering piece as first of two moves), if a piece/pawn doesn't capture(at both moves) it can move two moves(if unit can move two types of moves it can use both).e.g knight protected by bishop, can move bishop move+knight move,knight move +knight move or bishop capture/move and knight capture/move.Kings cannot double move.
    -------------
    Pieces movement
    Bishop:as chess bishop.
    Knight:as chess knight.
    Rook: as chess rook.
    Dragon: as chess knight or bishop.


    Jester:moves as knight and any move/doublemove of guarding/attacking piece/pawn(enemy or firendly),
    immobilizes all nearby 3x3 enemies.immobilized pieces cannot move/use ability.
    Cannot capture units.Explodes 3x3 when captured(explosion bypasses "cannot be captured").
    Jesters/kings are immune to jesters immobilization.

    King: movement:Can exchange place with any friendly(non-attacked) unit in the game(kings exchange),but can't move on its own(exchanged piece is removed from board, so each "teleport" costs a pawn/piece to make).
    If king is captured/checkmated the enemy wins.

    pawns:1 square in any direction
    pawns at last file, promote to knight/bishop/rook/queen/dragon/jester.
    Pawn capturing a non-pawn transforms into that piece(early promotion).if a side loses all pawns it loses the game(promoted pawns count as lost,.i.e its a mistake to promote all pawns), as alternative to checkmate.

    Queen:move: 1knight,1bishop or 1rook move,
    Queen ability:
    when queen captures a piece/pawn, on move(queen) from that square the square becomes a death trap/removed square
    Units cannot move(bishop/rook/pawn move) through such a square, if they land at their end of movement on it they die(if its only legal move to move into deathtrap the unit dies/is checkmated).
    if last file square is removed(by queen) promotion occurs at the square nearest to the boards enemy side (that can be reached by pawn movement).
    (50 moves rule not enforced,3fold repetition is draw)
    If a side cannot move(stalemate) it loses the game.
